NAME

edsac -- EDSAC simulator

SYNOPSIS

edsac [ [ -csr01] [ file ] ] ...

DESCRIPTION

Edsac simulates the execution of the EDSAC computer.  The files
on the command line represent tapes to be set up in the tape
reader and the options -c, -s, and -r represent buttons on the
machine's control panel.  A file argument means "Place this 'tape'
in the reader"; an option means "Press this button."  The "button"
options are interpreted as follows:

-c  Clear button.  Clear the store & the registers.

-s  Start button.  Load and execute the initial orders.

-r  Reset button.  Restart the machine after it stops.

The September 1949 initial orders are used by default unless one of the
following options is specified:

-0  Use the May 1949 initial orders for the following programs.
-1  Use the September 1949 initial orders for the following programs.
-b  Simulates the use of the SSI unit of the EDSAC replica at
    The National Museum of Computing for directly loading programs into
    store. The input  should consist of 18 bit binary numbers written
    as ASCII '0' and '1' characters, separated by newlines.

If no files are specified or - is used as a file name, the standard input
is read.  If there are no files or options on the command line, the clear
and start buttons are automatically pressed.

-v  controls the verbosity of execution tracing.
-v0     No tracing.
-v1     Trace every order by typing it's order code letter.  If a
        G or E order jumps, a newline is output following.
-v2     as -v1 but also show value in accumulator every time it is changed.

-l  puts a limit on the number of orders executed.

-lnnn   Stop after executing nnn orders where nnn is a decimal number.

EXAMPLES

Punch "program.e", and execute it, printing the results:

punch program.e | edsac | tprint

Execute the program in "tape" and then run a post-mortem routine ("post").

edsac tape -cs post -r | tprint

SEE ALSO

punch(EDSAC), tprint(EDSAC)

BUGS

The use of command line arguments to simulate pressing buttons is awkward,
to say the least.  In particular, it is difficult to remember to put -s
at the end of the command line when files are specified or the -0 option is
being used.
